Create Taxonomy WG Charter (#161)
finos/common-cloud-controls: docs/governance/working-groups/taxonomy/charter.md

# Taxonomy Working Group Charter

This document outlines the mission, scope, and objectives of the Common Cloud Controls (CCC) Taxonomy [WG].

## Table of Contents

1. [Mission](#mission)
2. [Approach & Responsibilities](#approach--responsibilities)
   - [Output / Deliverables](#output--deliverables)
3. [Out of Scope](#out-of-scope)
4. [Governance](#governance)
   - [Membership](#membership)
   - [Sub-Groups](#sub-groups)
   - [Meeting & Communication](#meeting--communication)
   - [Changes](#changes)
   
## Mission

> The mission of the Taxonomy [WG] is to define and maintain a comprehensive taxonomy of cloud services offered by the cloud hyperscalers. This initiative aims to establish a standardized nomenclature and attributes for common cloud capabilities such as VMs, Storage, and Networking. By creating this uniform taxonomy, the WG will facilitate the application of a set of controls across various cloud provider implementations, addressing common risks and promoting broader applicability of the CCC project's resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mission of the Taxonomy [WG] is to define and maintain a comprehensive taxonomy of service(s) offered by the cloud hyperscalers. This initiative aims to establish a standardized nomenclature and attributes for common service categories such as VMs, Storage, and Networking. By creating this uniform taxonomy, the WG will facilitate the application of a set of controls across various cloud provider implementations, addressing common risks and promoting broader applicability of the CCC project's resources.
```

## Approach & Responsibilities

- Identify common cloud service categories, prioritizing those most commonly used within financial service institutions
- Create and maintain an index of all common service categories each organized by common categorical delineations
- Create and maintain a list of descriptions for the minimum viable features of each service category
- Create and maintain an asset describing the ways to test the presence of each feature for a service
- Ensure all artifacts comply with requirements documented by the [Delivery WG] prior to release
- Collaborate with [Delivery WG] to publish each release on the agreed schedule
- Collaborate with the [Communications WG] to incorporate user feedback into the development cycle

### Output / Deliverables

The following artifacts will be created and stored in the project GitHub repo:

- Index of common service categories
- List of feature descriptions for each service in the index
- Test descriptions for each feature on each service

## Out of Scope

The following activities will not be performed by this group:

- Working on assets related to cybersecurity topics
- Public-facing communications

> - Tracking cloud vendor support of taxonomy features

Author: taxonomy -> service

## Governance

This [WG] will remain compliant with all applicable community [policies]. At the guidance of the WG Lead, this group will seek to implement [recommendations] set forth by the [Community Structure WG].

### Membership

The membership structure of this working group.

- **WG Lead:** Sonali Mendis
- **SC Sponsor:** Robert Griffiths

### Sub-Groups

- This group is not authorized to create independent sub-groups.

### Meeting & Communication

- This working group will use the mail group <ccc-taxonomy@lists.finos.org> for regular communications.

> - This group will host a recurring WG meeting (not hosted by FINOS) every two weeks, with possible exceptions for months, April, November and December.

Reviewer 2: Changed. Since thanks giving and Easter are not country specific holidays, I stated that as just global holidays
